(upbeat music)
All right, let's talk about something
that's called hoisting.
We talked a little bit about it before,
but let's get into the nitty gritty of what it is,
when can you use it, and why might you wanna ever use it.
So, hoisting in JavaScript allows you
to access functions and variables
before they have been created.
There's two things in JavaScript that are hoisted,
function declarations and variable declarations.
So, let's go into function declarations first.
So go ahead and make a hoisting.js
in your playground folder.
Give it your base HTML,
and then link up a script to hoisting.js,
and then in hoisting.js we have nothing.
It's gonna console.log('it works!').
Make sure it works.
Good, good, good!
Okay, so let's talk about a function.
Let's make a function called sayHi.
Inside of that we'll console.log('hey!').
Now if I were to try to run that before it exists,
is that going to work?
You see my editor is already getting mad at me.
If I hover over it, sayHi
it was used before it was defined.
I have a rule that says you can't do this.
I'll explain that in just a second.
So is it gonna to work?
It works just fine.
Why?
Because hoisting is,
is that when you run your JavaScript file,
JavaScript the compiler
will take all of your function declarations
and doot, doot, doot, doot,
move them to the top of the file,
so that they're all available for you actually use them.
So, because of hoisting,
you can technically run a function before it exists.
Let's make another one. function add(a,b),
and then we will return A plus B
and if I were to use that in here.
Add 10 and two.
Let's console log the output.
Is that gonna work?
Yeah, 12.
And I've used the function here before it's defined.
That's because hoisting will move them to the top
before it will actually run anything.
So, JavaScript rearranges and puts the functions
at the top of your file.
Why does that exist?
Why might that be there?
I personally don't use it at all.
You can see that my eslint is yelling at me.
I much refer to first, define my functions,
and then go ahead and use them.
Or as we get into modules, I much prefer
to just put my functions in a separate module
called, like, util functions or math functions
and then import them as I need them into the file
where they actually run.
The one argument I have heard where hoisting is useful
is people much prefer to have at the, they open up,
let's say you open up this hoisting.js.
They much prefer to have like,
"What does this file do?"
First, and then the next one is,
"How does this file do it?".
So if you are quickly jumping into a file,
you can just see the first couple lines is,
"What does tis file so?"
I don't necessarily care how sayHi works.
I just wanna know what it does.
But, if you do care what sayHi does,
you can of course go a little bit lower in the file
and look at how that sausage is made.
So, personally, my only, this is just an opinion,
I don't agree with it
and I don't use hoisting all that often.
The other type of hoisting is called variable hoisting.
So, if I were to go, let me just go to the top here.
if I were to console.log an age variable,
and then say var age is equal to 10,
what are we gonna get there?
Is it gonna log?
Is it gonna be an error?
Is it going to be undefined or is it gonna be 10?
It's undefined.
So if I were to try log, like, another variable
that doesn't exist like cool,
cool is not defined.
So, what happens is that JavaScript
will hoist the variable declarations,
but it will not hoist the actual setting of the value.
So if I check it now, age is,
that's not gonna work 'cause it's not there,
but, if I check it there, age is set to 10.
So what JavaScript essentially does is,
it says before everything runs
I'm going to make my variables.
Then I'm just gonna go ahead and update them.
(laughs)
Look, he can't even see far.
I gotta turn off my eslint to do these terrible things.
Disable.
Eslint disable.
And that's essentially what JavaScript is doing is
it's taking the var, putting it above it.
So, I guess you could use hoisting to figure out
if variables are later created
but not what their values are later in the file.
Again, I just think that adds to the confusion.
So, just stick that in your back pocket.
Hoisting is variable declarations and function declarations
that are hoisted to the top of the file.
Only these type of functions.
Not if I were to put these in a variable.
Const add is equal to a function.
That's not a function declaration,
that's a function stuck in a variable.
And then we get an error.
Cannot access add before initialize.
Same with an arrow function or any of the other types
of functions we talked about.
It only works with regular functions.
So if I bring that back to a proper function
then it will hoist itself.
So, that's hoisting.
Stick it in your back pocket.
Know about it.
But we aren't going to be using that in this course
just 'cause I don't find much use for it.
I'll catch ya in the next one.